## EB00942

## S32G3 NoC Configuration

Rev. 1.0 - 5 September 2024

## 1   Introduction

Network-on-Chip (NoC) is an interconnect matrix that supports communication between various initiators and targets. In NoC interconnects, Quality of Service (QoS) is the statistical allocation of throughput and delay. It is defined in terms of bandwidth and latency to the transactions transported between the initiators and the targets.

This document provides NXP's updated configurations of the NoC interfaces on the controllers of the S32G3 family. These updated configurations are based on the device validation and are targeted to better ensure bandwidth availability for all transactions on the NoC. It is mandatory to apply these new settings.

Note: These configurations are not applicable for S32G2, which uses the default configuration.

## 2   Programming the updated NoC QoS settings

The default NoC settings are done in the NoC hardware design and are applied automatically at device reset. NXP mandates to overwrite these settings with the attached settings. These settings have gone through exhaustive testing during the validation of the device and have proven to be optimal for the part's intended target applications. Changes to these settings may result in degradation of system performance.

The attached settings should be written once after every reset (POR, destructive reset, functional reset, or Standby exit) and should be one of the first things that the software needs to perform, before there is any significant traffic on the NoC. Dynamic configuration of these parameters can cause system instabilities. Therefore, these configuration parameters should not be altered after they are initially set.

Any of the available cores (Cortex-A53 ®  or Cortex-M7 ® ) can initiate these writes. However, it is recommended that these settings are applied by the core that boots first, before there is any significant traffic on the NoC. The core can perform these register writes in any sequence. However, after every reset, it must be ensured that the configurations are not being written twice in a multi-core boot setup.

If the customer use case includes resetting RD1 (Software Reset Domain/Partition 1) on-the-fly at runtime, the application must check and update the corresponding NoC QoS settings, which may have reverted to the HW default values in a read-compare-update (if not set to the desired value) manner, after enabling (turning on) RD1 and before starting any core in RD1.

If the customer use case includes resetting RD2 (Software Reset Domain/Partition 2), RD3 (Software Reset Domain/Partition 3) or both on-the-fly at runtime, there is no need to update any NoC QoS setting after reenabling (re-turning on) either of these domains (partitions).

In this document, the NoC QoS settings are divided into two groups, one for all domains (partitions) except RD1, and the other for RD1 only. The former group is referred to as FlexNocConfigs\_M7 and the latter group is referred to as FlexNocConfigs\_A53.

## 2.1  Prerequisites for programming the updated NoC QoS settings

The following are the prerequisites for programming the updated NoC QoS settings.

- To apply FlexNocConfigs\_M7 on S32G3, the Interconnected Interfaces of RD2 and RD3 must be enabled through related RDC registers, to allow writing of the settings to the desired register spaces on NoC. Failing to do so may result in hard fault on M7 or Bus error on A53 because of the register inaccessibility.

Engineering bulletin

S32G3 NoC Configuration

- To apply FlexNocConfigs\_A53 on S32G3, RD1 must be enabled (turned on), to allow writing of the settings to the desired spaces on NoC and Ncore. Failing to do so may result in hard fault on M7 or bus error on A53 because of the register inaccessibility.

## Note:

To avoid potentially significant traffic going through the NoC during the update of the NoC registers, the following points should be noted.

- If M7\_0 is the first core to boot and run the bootloader, then M7\_0 programs the updated NoC QoS settings in the bootloader. RD2, RD3, all other M7 cores in the Main Reset Domain, and all A53 cores in RD1 should remain off (reset), until the programming process is complete.
- If A53\_0 is the first core to boot and run the bootloader, then A53\_0 programs the updated NoC QoS settings in the bootloader. RD2, RD3, all M7 cores in the Main Reset Domain, and all other A53 cores in RD1 should remain off (reset), until the programming process is complete.

## 2.2  Steps to program the updated NoC QoS settings using the NXP example bootloader

The following steps are required to program the updated NoC QoS settings using the NXP example bootloader.

1. Download the NXP example bootloader available within the GoldVIP for S32G3 1.13.0 release onwards. Note: Due to the known software issues, NXP example bootloaders from GoldVIP (versions earlier than 1.13.0) or from S32G3 Platform Software Integration (versions till 2023.11) cannot work well with applying FlexNocConfigs\_A53 on S32G3.
2. To apply the updated NoC QoS configurations, make sure the checkbox - "Enable FlexNoC Registers" is enabled.
3. To ensure that all NoC QoS settings are updated before the bootloader starts any application (core), make sure the checkbox - 'Start Applications Synchronously' is enabled.
4. Configure the core configuration for both M7\_0 and A53\_0.

S32G3 NoC Configuration

Note: In the NXP example bootloader, the FlexNocConfigs\_M7 is only applied if M7\_0 is correctly configured in the core configuration panel. The FlexNocConfigs\_A53 is only applied if A53\_0 is correctly configured in the core configuration panel.

5. Optionally configure the core configuration for other cores based on actual usage.
6. Generate code for all configurations and build the bootloader.

After completing all the above steps, the bootloader will update FlexNocConfigs\_M7 and FlexNocConfigs\_A53 before starting any application (core).

## 2.3  Steps to program the updated NoC QoS settings using a custom bootloader

The following steps are required to program the updated NoC QoS settings using a custom bootloader.

1. Download FlexNOC\_Init.h and FlexNOC\_Init.c by either of the following methods.
- Download the files from the attachments of this document.
- Download the files from the NXP example bootloader available within the GoldVIP for S32G3 1.13.0 release onwards.

The FlexNOC\_Init.h and FlexNOC\_Init.c contain the FlexNocConfigs\_M7 and FlexNocConfigs\_A53 in array form, and the function FlexNOC\_InitNoc() which is used to apply FlexNocConfigs\_M7 and FlexNocConfigs\_A53.

2. To update NoC registers with FlexNocConfigs\_M7, ensure the following:
- Check the interconnect interface status of RD2. If the interconnect interface is not enabled, enable it before further operations.
- Check the interconnect interface status of RD3. If the interconnect interface is not enabled, enable it before further operations.
- Update the NoC registers with FlexNocConfigs\_M7 by calling the function FlexNOC\_InitNoc(CORE\_ID\_M7\_0).

The following function is an example of checking the interconnect interface status of a specific software reset domain and enabling the interconnect interface of that software reset domain if it is not enabled.

```
Figure 3. Example function 88 89 /*AvailableSoftware Reset Domains* 90 typedef enum 91 /*---Software Resettable Domains 92 RD1 = /*Software Reset domain1:Cortex-A53 6 RD2 = 2， /*Software Reset domain 2:PFE 94 RD3= 3 /*Software Reset domain3:LLCE 95 }SoftwareResetDomainType; 96 97 #define E_NOT_OK 0x01U 98 #define E_OK 0x0OU 99 #define TIMEOUT_CNT_INIT_VALUE Oxffffu 100 #define TIMEOUT_CNT_END_VALUE 0xOU 101 #define RD_INTERCONNECT_STAT_MASK 0x10U 102 #define RD_INTERCONNECT_DISABLE_MASK 0x8U 103 #define RD_CTRL_REG_UNLOCK_MASK 0x80000000U 104 105 StatusType EnableSRDInterconnectInterface(SoftwareResetDomainType domain) 106 107 StatusType status =E_OK; 108 uint16_ttimeout=TIMEOUT_CNT_INIT_VALUE; 109 I0 uint32_t *ctrlReg; 110 I uint32_t *statReg; 111 112 switch (domain) 113 114 case RD1: 115 ctrlReg =&IP_RDC->RD1_CTRL_REG; 116 statReg &IP_RDC->RD1_STAT_REG; 117 break; 118 119 case RD2: 120 ctrlReg=8 &IP_RDC->RD2_CTRL_REG; 121 statReg=8 &IP_RDC->RD2_STAT_REG; 122 break; 123 124 case RD3: 125 ctrlReg &IP_RDC->RD3_CTRL_REG; 126 statReg = &IP_RDC->RD3_STAT_REG; 127 break; 128 129 default: 130 return E_NOT_OK; 131 132 133 if（(*statReg&RD_INTERCONNECT_STAT_MASK)!=OU)/*not already enabled */ 134 二 135 /*Unlock the software reset domain controlregister for writing */ 136 *ctr1Reg|=RD_CTRL_REG_UNLOCK_MASK; 137 138 /*Enable the interconnectinterface of software reset domain */ 139 *ctrlReg&=~RD_INTERCONNECT_DISABLE_MASK; 140 141 /*Wait for softwarereset domain status register*/ 142 /*toacknowledgeinterconnectinterfaceenabled */ 143 while （((*statReg & RD_INTERCONNECT_STAT_MASK)!= OU)&&(timeout--)) continue; 144 145 if（TIMEOUT_CNT_END_VALUE!=timeout)/* Reset domain init success */ 146 147 status =E_OK; 148 else 149 150 status =E_NOT_OK; 151 152 153 /*Relockthe softwarereset domain controlregister*/ 154 *ctr1Reg &=~RD_CTRL_REG_UNLOCK_MASK; 155 156 157 return status; 158 159
```

3. To update NoC registers with FlexNocConfigs\_A53, ensure the following:
- Check if partition 1 is enabled (turned on). If partition 1 is not enabled (turned on), enable (turn on) it before further operations.
- Update the NoC registers with FlexNocConfigs\_A53 by calling the function FlexNOC\_InitNoc(CORE\_ID\_A53\_0).

Refer to the S32G3 reference manual to enable (turn on) partition 1. Alternatively, refer to the function Bl\_EnablePartition() defined in Bootloader\_Specific.c in the NXP example bootloader to enable (turn on) partition 1.

EB00942

All information provided in this document is subject to legal disclaimers.

© 2024 NXP B.V. All rights reserved.

S32G3 NoC Configuration

## 4. Start applications (cores).

For more SW implementation details, see the NXP example bootloader within the GoldVIP for S32G3 1.13.0 release onwards.

## 3   Revision history

Table 1. Revision history

| Document ID    | Release date     | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        |
|----------------|------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| EB00942 v. 1.0 | 5 September 2024 | • Updated document title from 'S32G3 NoC Recommendations' to 'S32G3 NoC Configuration'. • Updated the title of Section 2 from "Programming new QoS settings" to "Programming the updated NoC QoS settings". • In Section 2 added three paragraphs on the clarifications on the sequence of registers. • Updated the title of Section 2.1 from "Prerequisites for programming the updated QoS settings" to "Pre- requisites for programming the updated NoC QoS settings". • Added sections Section 2.2 and Section 2.3. • Updated and modified the attachments FlexNOC_ Init.c and FlexNOC_Init.h. |
| EB00942 v. 0   | March 2023       | Initial Revision                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |

## 4   Note about the source code in the document

Example code shown in this document has the following copyright and BSD-3-Clause license:

Copyright 2024 NXP Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:

1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation and/or other materials must be provided with the distribution.
3. Neither the name of the copyright holder nor the names of its contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software without specific prior written permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

S32G3 NoC Configuration

## Legal information

## Definitions

Draft - A draft status on a document indicates that the content is still under internal review and subject to formal approval, which may result in modifications or additions. NXP Semiconductors does not give any representations or warranties as to the accuracy or completeness of information included in a draft version of a document and shall have no liability for the consequences of use of such information.

## Disclaimers

Limited warranty and liability - Information in this document is believed to be accurate and reliable. However, NXP Semiconductors does not give any representations or warranties, expressed or implied, as to the accuracy or completeness of such information and shall have no liability for the consequences of use of such information. NXP Semiconductors takes no responsibility for the content in this document if provided by an information source outside of NXP Semiconductors.

In no event shall NXP Semiconductors be liable for any indirect, incidental, punitive, special or consequential damages (including - without limitation lost profits, lost savings, business interruption, costs related to the removal or replacement of any products or rework charges) whether or not such damages are based on tort (including negligence), warranty, breach of contract or any other legal theory.

Notwithstanding any damages that customer might incur for any reason whatsoever, NXP Semiconductors' aggregate and cumulative liability towards customer for the products described herein shall be limited in accordance with the Terms and conditions of commercial sale of NXP Semiconductors.

Right to make changes - NXP Semiconductors reserves the right to make changes to information published in this document, including without limitation specifications and product descriptions, at any time and without notice. This document supersedes and replaces all information supplied prior to the publication hereof.

Applications - Applications that are described herein for any of these products are for illustrative purposes only. NXP Semiconductors makes no representation or warranty that such applications will be suitable for the specified use without further testing or modification.

Customers are responsible for the design and operation of their applications and products using NXP Semiconductors products, and NXP Semiconductors accepts no liability for any assistance with applications or customer product design. It is customer's sole responsibility to determine whether the NXP Semiconductors product is suitable and fit for the customer's applications and products planned, as well as for the planned application and use of customer's third party customer(s). Customers should provide appropriate design and operating safeguards to minimize the risks associated with their applications and products.

NXP Semiconductors does not accept any liability related to any default, damage, costs or problem which is based on any weakness or default in the customer's applications or products, or the application or use by customer's third party customer(s). Customer is responsible for doing all necessary testing for the customer's applications and products using NXP Semiconductors products in order to avoid a default of the applications and the products or of the application or use by customer's third party customer(s). NXP does not accept any liability in this respect.

Terms and conditions of commercial sale - NXP Semiconductors products are sold subject to the general terms and conditions of commercial sale, as published at https://www.nxp.com/profile/terms, unless otherwise agreed in a valid written individual agreement. In case an individual agreement is concluded only the terms and conditions of the respective agreement shall apply. NXP Semiconductors hereby expressly objects to applying the customer's general terms and conditions with regard to the purchase of NXP Semiconductors products by customer.

S32G3 NoC Configuration

Export control - This document as well as the item(s) described herein may be subject to export control regulations. Export might require a prior authorization from competent authorities.

HTML publications - An HTML version, if available, of this document is provided as a courtesy. Definitive information is contained in the applicable document in PDF format. If there is a discrepancy between the HTML document and the PDF document, the PDF document has priority.

Translations - A non-English (translated) version of a document, including the legal information in that document, is for reference only. The English version shall prevail in case of any discrepancy between the translated and English versions.

Security - Customer understands that all NXP products may be subject to unidentified vulnerabilities or may support established security standards or specifications with known limitations. Customer is responsible for the design and operation of its applications and products throughout their lifecycles to reduce the effect of these vulnerabilities on customer's applications and products. Customer's responsibility also extends to other open and/or proprietary technologies supported by NXP products for use in customer's applications. NXP accepts no liability for any vulnerability. Customer should regularly check security updates from NXP and follow up appropriately. Customer shall select products with security features that best meet rules, regulations, and standards of the intended application and make the ultimate design decisions regarding its products and is solely responsible for compliance with all legal, regulatory, and security related requirements concerning its products, regardless of any information or support that may be provided by NXP.

NXP has a Product Security Incident Response Team (PSIRT) (reachable at PSIRT@nxp.com) that manages the investigation, reporting, and solution release to security vulnerabilities of NXP products.

Suitability for use in automotive applications (functional safety) -This NXP product has been qualified for use in automotive applications. It has been developed in accordance with ISO 26262, and has been ASIL classified accordingly. If this product is used by customer in the development of, or for incorporation into, products or services (a) used in safety critical applications or (b) in which failure could lead to death, personal injury, or severe physical or environmental damage (such products and services hereinafter referred to as 'Critical Applications'), then customer makes the ultimate design decisions regarding its products and is solely responsible for compliance with all legal, regulatory, safety, and security related requirements concerning its products, regardless of any information or support that may be provided by NXP. As such, customer assumes all risk related to use of any products in Critical Applications and NXP and its suppliers shall not be liable for any such use by customer. Accordingly, customer will indemnify and hold NXP harmless from any claims, liabilities, damages and associated costs and expenses (including attorneys' fees) that NXP may incur related to customer's incorporation of any product in a Critical Application.

NXP B.V. - NXP B.V. is not an operating company and it does not distribute or sell products.

## Trademarks

Notice: All referenced brands, product names, service names, and trademarks are the property of their respective owners.

NXP - wordmark and logo are trademarks of NXP B.V.

AMBA, Arm, Arm7, Arm7TDMI, Arm9, Arm11, Artisan, big.LITTLE, Cordio, CoreLink, CoreSight, Cortex, DesignStart, DynamIQ, Jazelle, Keil, Mali, Mbed, Mbed Enabled, NEON, POP, RealView, SecurCore, Socrates, Thumb, TrustZone, ULINK, ULINK2, ULINK-ME, ULINKPLUS, ULINKpro, μVision, Versatile - are trademarks and/or registered trademarks of Arm Limited (or its subsidiaries or affiliates) in the US and/or elsewhere. The related technology may be protected by any or all of patents, copyrights, designs and trade secrets. All rights reserved.

## Contents

| 1   | Introduction ......................................................1                                       |
|-----|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| 2   | Programming the updated NoC QoS settings .............................................................1    |
| 2.1 | Prerequisites for programming the updated NoC QoS settings ..............................................1 |
| 2.2 | Steps to program the updated NoC QoS settings using the NXP example bootloader ......2                     |
| 2.3 | Steps to program the updated NoC QoS settings using a custom bootloader ...................3               |
| 3   | Revision history ...............................................5                                          |
| 4   | Note about the source code in the document ..........................................................5     |
|     | Legal information .............................................6                                           |

EB00942

S32G3 NoC Configuration