## UG10089

## S32G Vehicle Integration Platform (GoldVIP) Developer's Guide for S32G3

Rev. 1.11.0 - 29 January 2024

User guide

<!-- image -->

S32G Vehicle Integration Platform (GoldVIP) Developer's Guide for S32G3

## 1   Software Product Overview

This document intends to deliver an in-depth overview of the GoldVIP components and how to customize them.

GoldVIP provides a reference software integration platform for vehicle network processing applications like service-oriented gateways. It streamlines S32G hardware evaluation and accelerates software development by ease-of-use, hardware abstraction, software integration and visualization.

GoldVIP provides an out-of-the-box integration of open-source software components and third-party software on top of the S32G software ecosystem, offering both AUTOSAR ™ and Linux ® sample applications and rapid development. The key value propositions of the S32G hardware accelerators are showcased through visualization, fast deployment and examples.

The targeted use cases include but are not limited to:

- CAN and Ethernet data routing with and without acceleration and Intrusion Detection, provided by Argus;
- Connected vehicle including over-the-air (OTA) updates and Vehicle-to-Cloud support using AWS IoT Greengrass ® ;
- In-vehicle services deployment with support for virtualization and containers;
- Vehicle network processing applications, network security and security services;

<!-- image -->

## 2   Boot

A system-level Bootloader integration example is used for various boot related tasks on the S32G platform. It works closely with various hardware accelerators and peripherals (HSE, DMA, XRDC, MCU, QSPI, SD), offering fast and reliable execution of the boot process. It is delivered in the GoldVIP installer as a binary containing the IVT (Image Vector Table) and HSE standard firmware, ready to be deployed on the board and in its source code format. It is executed by the Cortex-M7 core 0.

## 2.1  Current strategy

The Bootloader must initialize the S32G peripherals to be able to copy images from Non Volatile Memory (NOR Flash/SD/eMMC) to RAM. After images are copied to RAM, the Bootloader sets up the required peripherals and starts the application cores.

Currently, several execution steps are configured in the prebuilt binary (assumes booting from NOR Flash):

1. BootROM configures the NOR Flash using the QSPI reconfiguration data entry and performs an initialization of the SRAM using the DCD entry.
2. Initially, the Bootloader is started by BootROM.
3. Sets up the required peripheral (DMA, Clocks, Pins, HSE Key catalogs).
4. System startup checks are performed using S32 Safety Framework (SAF).
5. The Bootloader reads from the QSPI Flash memory, (from the IVT) the address where it was written at and creates a secure memory region entry. Typically, the secure memory region entry contains the following data: memory interface (QSPI Flash/SD/eMMC), start address, size, associated core and authentication generated by the HSE.
6. The secure memory region descriptor is then saved in QSPI Flash, in order to be used at the next boot by the HSE. This ensures that no data in the Bootloader will be tampered with.
7. A power on reset is triggered.
8. BootROM configures the QSPI Flash using the QSPI reconfiguration data entry and performs an initialization of the SRAM using the DCD entry. Control is passed to the HSE.
9. The bootloader is started by HSE after the memory region is safely checked.
10. Sets up the required peripheral (DMA, Clocks, Pins, HSE Key catalogs).
11. System startup checks are performed using SAF.
12. Application images are copied sequentially using DMA from Flash.
13. If the copy operation is successful, the Bootloader performs a de-initialization of the system and configures the XRDC. Through this, the Bootloader ensures that the booted applications do not interfere with each other. More details are provided in the chapter: System Partitioning.
14. The Bootloader starts the configured cores (in the current implementation the Cortex-A53\_0 core, running uboot or ATF) and jumps to the Cortex-M7\_0 application (goldvip-gateway.bin).
15. Both u-boot and Real Time Gateway applications will start the secondary cores (A53\_1-3 and M7\_1 respectively).

## 2.2  Customization points

The Bootloader through the provided tresos configuration, allows a high degree of flexibility. The provided configuration (found in the GoldVIP installer under configuration/s32g399ardb3/bootloader/ workspace directory) is used to compile the bootloader binary included in the installer. The configuration provided offers maximum performance, while ensuring a safe and secure execution of the boot code.

In order to modify this configuration, several dependencies need to be installed on the host system:

1. Real-Time Drivers;
2. HSE Firmware;

UG10089

S32G Vehicle Integration Platform (GoldVIP) Developer's Guide for S32G3

© 2024 NXP B.V. All rights reserved.

3. S32 Design Studio;
4. S32 Safety Framework. This software component is optional and can be removed from the project:
- a. Load the Bootloader configuration into the EB tresos workspace
- b. Remove all faulty modules in EB tresos dialog.
- c. Disable the Bootloader Safety Bootloader Enable radio button.
- d. Disable the CMU Clock Failure Notification (from the Mcu plugin).

Note : Make sure that the correct versions are installed on the host system. These dependencies are installed when getting the GoldVIP installer from the package manager.

If a reconfiguration or a rebuild is needed, perform the following steps:

1. Open the GoldVIP\_install\_path location and go to the /realtime/s32g399ardb3/bootloader/ framework/swc/bootloader/platforms/S32G3XX/build directory.
2. Edit the configuration.bat script with your system configuration, referring to the comments in the file.
3. Run launch.bat -j in command line. If the paths have been configured correctly, the Bootloader binary ( Bootloader.bin ) will be generated in the bin\_bootloader directory.
4. Using this binary, create an IVT blob image using the IVT tool included in the S32 Design Studio. After a valid image has been created, it can be deployed on the S32G board. More details on the process can be found in the Bootloader User Manual.

Apart from the boot configuration parameters (target core, flash image address, application image size), each of the application images can be checked for integrity using SHA/CRC. The applications can also be stored in their encrypted form in the NOR Flash, being subsequently decrypted when the Bootloader copies them to SRAM.

## 2.3  Tips and tricks

The Bootloader User Manual offers extensive details on the capabilities and the configuration options of the Bootloader.

For debug purposes, Trace32 scripts (used for Lauterbach debuggers) are offered for convenience in the build directory of the Bootloader.

<!-- image -->

S32G Vehicle Integration Platform (GoldVIP) Developer's Guide for S32G3

S32G Vehicle Integration Platform (GoldVIP) Developer's Guide for S32G3

## 3   Over The Air Updates

Over the Air (OTA) Updates enable the automakers to regularly update the software and/or firmware in a safe and secure fashion, remotely. GoldVIP demonstrates the advantages of OTA by highlighting how two components can be updated: the GoldVIP real time images (Bootloader, CAN-GW application, U-boot, HSE), and the v2xdomu VM (kernel and rootfs). GoldVIP integrates Airbiquity's OTAmatic Software and Data Management Platform to orchestrate and automate such updates.

OTA updates also present a considerable risk potential, since they can be used as attack vectors by malicious actors. Therefore, it is essential to protect the transfer of an update package to the vehicle, and then ensure that it is safely stored and then installed. The OTAmatic software suite provides secure updates via integration of the Uptane security framework that is used to sign and check the authenticity of the delivered updates.

The OTA Update functionality is delivered in the GoldVIP installer in binary format, as two separate tarballs that contain the application binaries and configuration files: goldvip\_uas.tgz and otamatic.tgz .

## 3.1  Implementation details

The following components are needed to enable OTA updates on GoldVIP:

- OTAmatic Service Delivery Platform (SDP) - a cloud-based service used for the management of vehicle software updates (i.e., creating update campaigns, storing the update packages, and cryptographically signing them).
- OTAmatic Client - establishes communication with the back-end server (OTAmatic SDP) and locally manages the update campaign by initiating and supervising updates of the secondary ECUs. It resides on the Primary ECU and acts as a gateway.
- Update Agent (UA) - serves as the mediator between the OTAmatic Client and the installer that performs the update of a target element of an ECU.

An update campaign must be configured in the OTAmatic SDP in order to demonstrate this use-case, and both the Client and the Update Agent must be provisioned with the initial Uptane configuration files. GoldVIP comes with a pre-configured update campaign and the OTA containerized applications are already provisioned.

The architecture described below exhibits where each OTA component resides and how they communicate with each other:

<!-- image -->

UG10089

All information provided in this document is subject to legal disclaimers.

© 2024 NXP B.V. All rights reserved.

S32G Vehicle Integration Platform (GoldVIP) Developer's Guide for S32G3

GoldVIP demonstrates how OTA Updates can be used to securely install new versions of software on different components, by employing two separate Update Agents:

- Realtime Update Agent, which is responsible for updates on images that are executed on real time cores, such as the Bootloader, CAN-GW application, and SJA binaries.
- Linux VM Update Agent which can update both the kernel and the rootfs of an unprivileged virtual machine (domU), such as the v2xdomu VM.

Both the Update Agents ensure that the update is installed in a safe manner, by employing an A/B swap partitioning scheme. This method minimizes the chances of a device becoming inactive following an update, resulting in fewer device replacements and reflashes at repair and warranty centers.

The OTAmatic Client runs as a containerized application on v2xdomu VM and it starts automatically when the system is booted. Once the network is configured, and the updates request is sent to Client, it establishes the connection to the OTAmatic SDP and then checks for available updates. The Client downloads the update packages for each secondary ECU that can be updated and checks their authenticity and integrity. Once the preconditions that were configured in the update campaign are met, the Client initiates the installation process: it sends the update package and its associated metadata files to the corresponding Update Agent, then informs the UA to start the update process.

Once the Update Agent receives the trigger to start the installation, it does a full Uptane verification on the received update package to ensure the integrity of the file, then it proceeds with the update process. The Client continuously monitors the status of the installation process and takes appropriate actions once an update has been completed (i.e., checks for other updates).

The OTAmatic Client makes use of the Integrator Interface component to monitor the vehicle state and determine whether the OTA updates can be downloaded or installed. Two files located at /data/aqconfig on v2xdomu VM are used to interact with the OTAmatic Client:

- ota\_check is used to indicate if conditions are adequate to proceed with the OTA campaign.
- request is used to send requests to the OTAmatic Client.

The Client polls periodically at every 10 minutes (if not explicitly set otherwise in the /data/aqconfig/ ota\_check file) the state of the conditions or a proceed request can be sent to the Client to check the conditions immediately, without waiting for the polling period to elapse. All the settings related to the vehicle state are handled in the update\_monitor.py script.

For example, to set the conditions expected for the pre-configured update campaign, one should execute the following command in the v2xdomu console python3 ~/ota/demo/update\_monitor.py . The script will monitor the OTA campaign and print the output to the user:

<!-- image -->

© 2024 NXP B.V. All rights reserved.

S32G Vehicle Integration Platform (GoldVIP) Developer's Guide for S32G3

The OTAmatic Client and the GoldVIP Update Agents communicate over the v2xbr virtual switch through Airbiquity's Update Agent REST Interface. Using HTTP requests, the Client can interrogate what software version is installed, transfer files to the Update Agent, or command the UA to start the installation or to commit the changes.

GoldVIP integrates a basic Textual User Interface (TUI) used to display the progress of the download and/ or installation process, while it also provides means to automate some of the environment-setup steps (e.g., network interface setup, system date and time synchronization). The OTA updates functionality is showcased by running the /home/root/ota/demo/update\_monitor.py script from the v2xdomu console. This monitor makes use of the HMI API provided by the Client to get notifications about a change in the status of the OTA update.

## 3.2  Customization points

If you want to configure the update campaign, you need to obtain access to the OTAmatic SDP portal from Airbiquity. Through the portal, it is possible to customize what images will be installed during the update. However, when updating the flash images, if the bootloader is updated, it is mandatory to update the Cortex-M7 binary and the U-boot running on Cortex-A53. Otherwise, the bootloader will not find the images in flash, and the boot process will fail. The format of the update packages used by the GoldVIP Update Agents is described in the GoldVIP User Manual.

## 3.3  Tips and tricks

The Uptane configuration files must be replaced if another update campaign is configured:

- The configuration files for the Update Agents are found at /data/{linuxvm,realtime}\_ua on dom0 VM. The content of each factory\_defaults directory can be updated with new Uptane metadata files, then run service goldvip-update-agents reload to start using the new configuration.
- The Uptane configuration used by the OTAmatic Client can be found at /data/otamatic on v2xdomu VM. The /home/root/ota/output/reinstall.sh script can be used to replace the old configuration files with the new ones.

The OTAmatic Client might fail to connect to the OTAmatic SDP back-end server if the network works behind an HTTP proxy. In such a case, the OTAmatic Client must be configured to use that HTTP proxy explicitly, by updating the backend configuration at /data/aqconfig/backend\_config.json . The /home/root/ota/ demo/scripts/add\_http\_proxy.py script can be used to update these settings.

The output logs of both OTA applications can be useful if an error is encountered during the update process:

- Check the /var/log/otamatic file on v2xdomu VM for logs from the OTAmatic Client.
- Check the /var/log/ota/goldvip\_uas file on dom0 for logs from the Update Agents.

S32G Vehicle Integration Platform (GoldVIP) Developer's Guide for S32G3

## 4   System Partitioning

GoldVIP offers software solutions for both the powerful Cortex-A53 microprocessors and the real time CortexM7 cores. However, it is important that these systems can operate without interfering with each other. To achieve that, the eXtended Resource Domain Controller (XRDC) is used to protect critical peripherals and memory from other masters in the system.

The system partitioning deals with the following concepts:

1. Domain master. It represents a master instance (as defined in XRDC module) which can have access to the system's resources (e.g., peripherals and memory). Examples of XRDC Domain masters: Cortex-M7\_0 AXI &amp; AHB; Cortex-A53 Cluster 0; LLCE; GMAC; HSE. Each of the domain masters can be grouped together in any configuration. The XRDC supports up to 8 Domain masters.

Note: Domain Master 0 is used as a fallback in case illegal access is detected. It is recommended to leave it unconfigured.

2. Domain assignment. It configures which system resources a domain master can access. The system resources can be split into two categories:
- a. Peripherals: Linflex, QuadSPI, HSE MUs, eDMAs. If a peripheral is left unconfigured, it will be available for all the masters in the system.
- b. Memory regions: SRAM, DDR, QSPI Flash, PFE&amp;LLCE shared memories. As opposed to peripherals, memory regions left unconfigured will not be visible to any master.

It is possible to assign the same peripheral/memory region to multiple domains masters, in case various peripherals or memory regions are shared.

Important: Any change in memory configuration for each of the applications needs to be reflected in the XRDC configuration.

## 4.1  Current strategy

In GoldVIP, several domain masters are defined, with the following characteristics:

1. M7\_0, M7\_1 and LLCE domain: Has access to SRAM, specific Real Time accelerators (LLCE), PFE memory region for Ethernet communication, and HSE messaging units (MU) 2 and 3.
2. A53, GIC500 and eDMA Domain: Has access to SRAM for u-boot to run, PFE shared memory region, DDR memory, GMAC, DMAs, LinFlex, QSPI, SD, FlexCAN, PCIe, and HSE messaging units (MU) 0 and 1.
3. PFE domain: Has access to PFE memory regions, SRAM and DDR, allowing usage of PFE from both M7 and A53.
4. HSE domain: Has access to all the HSE messaging units (MU), to the SRAM, DDR and CAN.

This configuration allows interoperability and freedom from interference for both the Cortex-A53 domain and the Cortex-M7 domain. It is possible to protect HSE MUs individually through the HSE XRDC peripheral.

## 4.2  Customization points

The XRDC configuration is performed before the application cores are started by the Bootloader. Updating the XRDC configuration is possible through the Resource Manager (RM) plugin from the Bootloader tresos project. For more details on the plugin please consult the documents provided in the plugin.

## 4.3  Tips and tricks

Do not configure Domain Master 0, unless necessary. All illegal accesses to memories/peripherals are defaulted through this domain master and might generate issues. For example, if the Cortex-M7\_0 is configured as part of Domain Master 0, an attacker having ownership of Linux running on Cortex-A53 cores will be able to modify the contents of the Cortex-M7\_0 application binary.

S32G Vehicle Integration Platform (GoldVIP) Developer's Guide for S32G3

It is recommended to check DERRLOC[x] registers from the XRDC module in case the delivered configuration is modified and errors are encountered. However, debugger accesses might generate errors: If you are debugging the Cortex-M7 core and dump the QSPI Flash, an illegal access will be reported.

More details on the XRDC functionality can be found in the S32G Reference Manual.

## 5   Telemetry

The GoldVIP Cloud Edge Gateway collects telemetry such as: Dom0 CPU load, Cortex-M7 CPU load, SJA1110 port statistics, PFE statistics and sends them to an AWS IoT SiteWise portal where the data is displayed in multiple dashboards. AWS IoT Greengrass v2 is used as the Cloud Edge component which connects the board to AWS. The cloud gateway architecture is described in the following picture:

<!-- image -->

## 5.1  Implementation details

The Cloud Edge Gateway consists of the following elements:

- Telemetry service on dom0 with the following subcomponents:
- -Telemetry aggregator, which collects the network and Dom0 system statistics, along with the Cortex-M7 core load. The Collector service, which sends these statistics to v2xdomu over the network bridge using a DDS domain. The telemetry is sent once every second, but this can be modified via a configuration message from the cloud. The steps needed in order to do this change are detailed in the next chapter.
- -An application socket, responsible for collecting data from various user applications. Using this socket interface, it is possible to send application specific data to cloud using a generic TCP socket implementation. In order to send custom data to cloud, please run the following command on Dom0 VM:
- AWS Serverless Application Repository (SAR) Telemetry application, which creates:
- -An AWS IoT SiteWise portal and all its components (an asset model, an asset, a project, multiple dashboards);
- -The AWS IoT Rules needed to route the telemetry data from the AWS IoT MQTT client to AWS IoT SiteWise;

```
$ echo '{ "app_data": {"payload key": "payload value"}, "mqtt_topic_suffix": "example/topic/suffix" }' | nc -c -v 127.0.0.1 51001
```

UG10089

All information provided in this document is subject to legal disclaimers.

© 2024 NXP B.V. All rights reserved.

S32G Vehicle Integration Platform (GoldVIP) Developer's Guide for S32G3

S32G Vehicle Integration Platform (GoldVIP) Developer's Guide for S32G3

- -A Greengrass V2 telemetry component. This is a lambda function which will be placed on v2xdomu when the Greengrass V2 deployment is performed. This component will get data from the Telemetry service on dom0 via the Ethernet bridge and send it to AWS via Greengrass's MQTT client.
- A provisioning script on v2xdomu, which checks and sets up the internet connection, synchronizes the system date and time, then creates a Greengrass V2 continuous deployment. After the deployment is made the telemetry component will run continuously and start sending data to AWS.

The SAR telemetry application is made of a Serverless Application Model (SAM) template and a set of custom functions which together describe how to create and delete all the services and configurations in the AWS console.

A application sends telemetry data from the SJA1110 Switch. It was implemented starting from an AWS FreeRTOS demo (https://docs.aws.amazon.com/freertos/latest/userguide/gg-demo.html). The Greengrass V2 core running on v2xdomu connects to the SJA1110 as an IoT client device, then the SJA1110 application sends data directly to AWS using the MQTT protocol through the Greengrass core on the v2xdomu.

The greengrass\_provisioning.py script provisions the SJA1110 application with the necessary certificates to connect to Greengrass. We describe in the next chapter how to add and provision other client devices.

## 5.2  Configuring the Telemetry

From the AWS IoT MQTT client you can send configuration messages to the telemetry component on v2xdomu. You must use the following MQTT topic: &lt;TelemetryTopic&gt;/config , where &lt;TelemetryTopic&gt; is set when creating the telemetry stack. To change the telemetry interval send the following message: {"telemetry\_interval": &lt;positive integer, in seconds&gt;} .

The Cortex-M7 core loads are computed by sampling their status (idle/working) multiple times per second and creating an average. The sampling rate can also be configured using the same MQTT configuration topic with the following message: {"m7\_status\_query\_time\_interval": &lt;positive float&gt;, "m7\_window\_size\_multiplier": &lt;positive integer&gt;} ; each parameter is optional. The default values are: 0.01 and 2 respectively. The query time interval sets the time interval between consequent samplings in seconds, while the window size multiplier is used to set the size of the moving average window used to compute the core load.

## 5.3  Deploying custom CloudFormation stacks from local files

Download the GoldVIP Cloud-Edge Gateway source code from https://github.com/nxp-auto-goldvip/gvip.

Install the AWS SAM CLI: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/serverless-application-model/latest/developerguide/ serverless-sam-cli-install.html.

Create an AWS S3 Bucket that will be used by SAM CLI to store the generated CloudFormation templates: https://s3.console.aws.amazon.com/s3/. Use the AWS Region where you want to deploy the telemetry application.

From the directory gvip/cloud-gw/nxp-serverless-deployment run the following command to deploy a new Telemetry CloudFormation stack from the local files:

```
$ sam deploy -t ./sam-template.yaml \ --capabilities "CAPABILITY_IAM" \ --region <region-name> --s3-bucket <s3-bucket> \ --stack-name <stack-name> \ --parameter-overrides TelemetryTopic=<telemetry-topic>
```

UG10089

All information provided in this document is subject to legal disclaimers.

© 2024 NXP B.V. All rights reserved.

S32G Vehicle Integration Platform (GoldVIP) Developer's Guide for S32G3

Where &lt;region-name&gt; is the region you set for the S3 Bucket, &lt;s3-bucket&gt; is the name of the bucket you created, &lt;stack-name&gt; is a name for your stack which must be unique, and &lt;telemetry-topic&gt; is the MQTT topic where the telemetry messages will be published.

## 5.4  Adding new dashboards

You can add your own custom dashboards to the SiteWise Project by configuring them in the sitewise\_config.json file, as described below. In order to apply the changes, a custom AWS CloudFormation stack must be deployed. Please check the Deploying custom CFN stacks from local files chapter for more details.

```
"common": { "dashboards": { <your_dashboard>: { "name": <your_dashboard_name>, "topic_rules": [ { "mqtt_topic_suffix": <your_mqtt_topic_suffix>, "use_cloud_timestamp": <false/true>, "measurements": { <measurement_alias>: { "name": <measurement_name>, "unit": <measurement_unit> }, ... }, "measurements_templates": { "measurement_alias_template": { <subst_id>: { "pattern": <string_pattern>, "val_list": [<value1>, <value2>, ...] }, ... }, "templates": { <template_id>: { "pattern": <string_pattern>, "name": <measurement_name_template>, "unit": <measurement_unit> }, ... } }, }, ... ], "transforms": { <transform>: { "name": <transform_name>, "unit": <measurement_unit>, "expression": <arithmetic_expression>, "var": <variable_used_in_expression>, "var_id": <property_name>; }, ... }, "transforms_templates": { "substitutions": { <subst_id>: { "pattern": <string_pattern>, "val_list": [<value1>, <value2>, ...] }, ... }, "templates": {
```

UG10089

All information provided in this document is subject to legal disclaimers.

© 2024 NXP B.V. All rights reserved.

## S32G Vehicle Integration Platform (GoldVIP) Developer's Guide for S32G3

```
<template_id>: { "pattern": <string_pattern>, "name": <transform_name_template>, "unit": <measurement_unit_template>, "expression": <arithmetic_expression_template>, "var": <variable_used_in_expression_template>, "var_id": <property_name_template> }, ... } }, "widgets": [ { "x": <widget_x_coord>, "y": <widget_y_coord, "height": <widget_height>, "width": <widget_width>, "title": <widget_title>, "type": <widget_type>, "metrics": { <metric_id>: { "label": <label_of_the_property>, "property_name": <property_name> }, ... } }, ... ] }, ... } }
```

The following four fields are used to create asset properties: "measurements" , "transforms" , "measurements\_templates" , "transforms\_templates" . None of these four fields are mandatory, use the option which best suits your needs. The property\_name from the widget's metrics must match the name of a property (either a measurement or a transform). your\_dashboard\_id must be unique. When defining templates, the string pattern can occur in any of the following fields: name , unit , expression , var , var\_id , and template\_id . Occurrences of pattern will be replaced by the values of val\_list . The number of values in val\_list determines how many properties will be made from the template. For the possible values of widget\_type see https://docs.aws.amazon.com/iot-sitewise/latest/userguide/createdashboards-using-aws-cli.html.

Measurements are properties that take their values directly from the MQTT message, while transforms are properties that apply an arithmetic expression on a measurement.

Send data to your new dashboard using the MQTT topic &lt;TelemetryTopic&gt;/&lt;your\_mqtt\_topic\_ suffix&gt; , where TelemetryTopic is a parameter set when deploying the stack. The MQTT message must contain:

```
{ "<measurement_alias>": <value>, ... }
```

## 5.5  Provisioning client devices

Client devices are local IoT devices that connect to and communicate with an AWS IoT Greengrass core device over MQTT. You can find more details in the AWS documentation: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/greengrass/v2/

UG10089

All information provided in this document is subject to legal disclaimers.

© 2024 NXP B.V. All rights reserved.

S32G Vehicle Integration Platform (GoldVIP) Developer's Guide for S32G3

developerguide/connect-client-devices.html. The SJA1110 switch is a client device running on a Cortex-M7 core connected to the AWS IoT Greengrass core, which is running on v2xdomu VM.

AWS provides an example implementation of a client device: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/freertos/latest/ userguide/gg-demo.html. In this demo the connection data is hardcoded. The GoldVIP SJA1110 telemetry use case is implemented starting from this demo, however it receives the connection data from the provisioning server over Ethernet, ensuring a quick deployment with any Telemetry Stack.

You can add more client devices to GoldVIP. You can reuse the provisioning infrastructure used for the SJA1110 switch to provision other client devices.

GoldVIP offers a provisioning script which retrieves and sends the data required by a client device to connect to the AWS IoT Greengrass core via an Ethernet connection. The following items are send:

- The IoT Thing name of the client device.
- A X.509 client certificate.
- The AWS IoT Greengrass certificate authority.
- The AWS IoT Endpoint.
- A MQTT Topic used by the client device to send data to the cloud.
- The IP address of the v2xdomu VM

However, before you provision the client device, you need to create it, along with a listening server which shall receive these items and use them, and connect it to the v2xdomu VM via a Ethernet interface. In the AWS Console also create a IoT Thing, more details here: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/iot/latest/developerguide/ create-iot-resources.html. The provisioning script will associate the IoT Thing to the X.509 Certificate and to the AWS IoT Greengrass core device. The IoT Thing needs to be in the same region as the Telemetry Stack.

After creating your client device and IoT Thing, add a new entry in ggv2\_deployment\_configuration.json under "devices" , like so:

```
{ "devices":{ "<client device>": { "thing_name": <Your IoT Thing's name>, "mqtt_topic": <A MQTT Topic>, "device_port": <Ethernet port>, "device_ip": <Your device's ip, optional>, "device_hwaddr": <Your device's hwaddr, required only if device_ip is set>, "netif" <Network interface used by your device, optional> } } }
```

Where device\_port is the Ethernet port on which your device will listen for and receive the connection data. You must implement this listening server on the client device. device\_hwaddr is only required if device\_ip is not specified. netif is optional, if it is not set the provisioning script will use the same network interface used to connect to the internet.

Finally, after creating your client device and configuring ggv2\_deployment\_configuration.json , run the greengrass\_provision.py script:

```
$ python3 ~/cloud-gw/greengrass_provision.py \ --stack-name <stack-name> \ --region-name <region-name> \ --setup-devices
```

UG10089

All information provided in this document is subject to legal disclaimers.

© 2024 NXP B.V. All rights reserved.

## 5.6  Tips and Tricks

On v2xdomU, using the Command Line Interface located at /greengrass/v2/bin/greengrass-cli you can stop and restart any component. This CLI is available after a successful Greengrass V2 deployment.

You can extend the AWS Telemetry application from the AWS console. More details about each service can be found in the AWS documentation: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/.

You can create your own SAR application by modifying the telemetry application or creating one from scratch. Consult the following documentation for more details:

- Serverless Application Repository handles the distribution and the creation of SAR applications from SAM models: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/serverlessrepo/?id=Wdocs\_gateway
- Serverless Application Model (SAM): https://docs.aws.amazon.com/serverless-application-model/?id=docs\_ gateway
- The python custom functions use the Boto3 library to interact with AWS: https://boto3.amazonaws.com/v1/ documentation/api/latest/guide/quickstart.html

The Greengrass V2 deployment runs a single custom component. You can create your own custom components and deploy them to run on v2xdomu. Consult the documentation for more details: https://docs.aws. amazon.com/greengrass/v2/developerguide/develop-greengrass-components.html.

S32G Vehicle Integration Platform (GoldVIP) Developer's Guide for S32G3

## 6   Virtualization

Virtualization uses software to create an abstraction layer over computer hardware that allows the hardware elements of a single computer (e.g., processors, memory, storage) to be divided into multiple virtual computers, commonly called virtual machines (VMs).

## 6.1  Current offering

By default, the GoldVIP deliverable includes Xen hypervisor. Xen is a type 1 hypervisor (bare metal) that makes possible running multiple instances of the same operating system seamlessly on the hardware. Xen allows creation of virtual machines from the command line or automatically at startup. Xen virtualizes CPUs, memory, interrupts and timers, providing virtual machines with virtualized resources.

Two types of virtual machines are defined by Xen:

1. Privileged ( Dom0 or Domain-0 ): The first machine that runs natively on the hardware and provides access to the hardware for unprivileged domains. Accesses to hardware are restricted by the XRDC for this Virtual Machine.
2. Unprivileged ( DomUs ): Virtual machines spawned by Dom0. These machines use the hardware resources allocated from the privileged domain (CPU, Memory, Disk, Network).

In GoldVIP, two virtual machines are started by default before the user logs in:

1. Domain-0 , which has access to all the system resources and creates two network bridges for the unprivileged guest. The first bridge (xenbr0) is used for external network communications, allowing the secondary VMs to communicate with the outside, while the second bridge (v2xbr) is used for inter-VM communication.
2. v2xdomu , unprivileged domain, which has access only to a limited number of resources but can communicate with external networks.

Through this separation, the most privileged domain is protected from any outside interference.

## 6.2  Customization points

Both Dom0 and v2xdomu can be customized. By default, the following configuration is provided:

1. Dom0: 8 virtual cores assigned to all the physical CPUs, 1 GB of RAM, MMC partition 2 used for rootfs.
2. v2xdomu: 2 virtual cores assigned to physical CPUs 6 and 7, 2 GB of RAM, MMC partition 3 used for rootfs.

Domain 0 is set by u-boot via the boot script (stored on the rootfs). It is possible to modify the configuration at runtime, however, if this kind of modification is needed, it is advised to rebuild the yocto image.

Main configuration parameters for an unprivileged virtual machine are:

1. Kernel image. It is possible to have different kernels running on the same hardware;
2. Number of virtual CPUs (vCPUs) assigned to the virtual machine;
3. Maximum usable memory;
4. Physical CPUs assigned to the VM;
5. Disk, used for storing the rootfs;
6. Bridged interfaces (from Dom0 to DomUs).

You can find this configuration in the Dom0 rootfs in the /etc/xen/auto folder.

## 6.3  Tips and tricks

Domain0 includes the XL toolstack, which allows the user to control (login/destroy/create/add resources to) the virtual machines. Useful commands include:

S32G Vehicle Integration Platform (GoldVIP) Developer's Guide for S32G3

S32G Vehicle Integration Platform (GoldVIP) Developer's Guide for S32G3

1. xl list : lists all the active domains running in the system.
2. xl create &lt;domain configuration file&gt; : spawns a DomU using the configuration from a file.
3. xl console &lt;domain name / domain ID&gt; : Logs into the console of another unprivileged domain.
4. CTRL+] : Returns to Dom0 console (can be run only from a DomU).
5. xl shutdown &lt;domain ID&gt; : Shuts down a DomU.
6. xl network-attach : attaches a network bridge to a DomU. The network bridge must be created in advance.
7. xl help : display all available commands.

Further documentation can be found at https://xenproject.org/. Be aware that not all features available on x86 are available on Xen for ARM.

After a successful OTA update by the Linux update agent, it is possible to run both the updated virtual machine (v2xdomu-2) and the original one (v2xdomu) in parallel, if different root file systems are used. Go to /etc/ xen/auto , copy the V2Xdomu.cfg file and edit the copied file by setting mmcblk0p5 instead of mmcblk0p3 . Then, boot the original virtual machine using xl create /etc/xen/auto/&lt;your\_file&gt;.

Note : When running the virtual machines in parallel, make sure to update the IP used by one of them on the v2xbr interface.

S32G Vehicle Integration Platform (GoldVIP) Developer's Guide for S32G3

## 7   Container orchestration

Virtualization via containers (containerization or OS-virtualization) emulates an operating system on top of the host OS, leveraging its features to isolate processes and control their access to hardware resources (e.g., CPU, memory, network).

Containers are a lightweight virtualization technique used to package and confine applications with their entire runtime environment. A container is a set of one or more processes that run isolated from the rest of the system, starting from a container image, which bundles the files required to support the processes. Container orchestration automates the deployment, scheduling, managing and scaling of containerized workloads in dynamic environments.

## 7.1  Current offering

By default, the GoldVIP deliverable includes K3s, a lightweight production-ready Kubernetes distribution built for Edge computing, and optimized for ARM architecture. K3s is used to automate the deployment of different services immediately after the platform was booted up. K3s can be further used to manage, scale, or even deploy new containerized workloads.

GoldVIP uses K3s to create a Kubernetes cluster that share the hardware resources from both domains (dom0 and v2xdomu). A Kubernetes cluster is a collection of nodes that work together to run containerized applications and workloads in a scalable, automated, and distributed manner. A Kubernetes cluster consists of its controlplane components (deployed on master nodes; manages the state of the cluster), and node components (each representing one or more host machines, running a container runtime and kubelet service).

In GoldVIP, the K3s cluster is composed of the following nodes:

- v2xdomu , which acts as the master node and starts the k3s server process. It runs the control plane components, while acting as a worker node at the same time, by running specific applications bound for execution on the v2xdomu VM.
- s32g399ardb3 , which acts as the worker node running on top of Domain-0 VM, running specific applications bound for execution on Dom0.

The containerized applications are automatically deployed once the cluster nodes has booted up, using autodeploying manifests . Any file found in /var/lib/rancher/k3s/server/manifests on the master's rootfs (i.e., v2xdomu) will be used to deploy the defined components at the startup of the k3s server process. The container images stored in /var/lib/rancher/k3s/agent/images on any node will be loaded automatically during the start of the k3s process.

## 7.2  Customization points

There is a high degree of customization regarding the cluster nodes, what components are deployed on each of them, and what containerized workloads to start, manage and scale. By default, the following configuration is provided:

- v2xdomu domain acts as the master node, running only the required control-plane components and containerized workloads. Some of the Kubernetes-specific packaged components are disabled in order to optimize the consumption of hardware resources (i.e., coredns, servicelb, traefik, local-storage, metricsserver). The node is using the v2x bridge to advertising itself to other Kubernetes nodes.
- dom0 domain acts as the worker node, running only containerized workloads orchestrated by the controlplane components. The k3s agent is configured to use the v2x bridge to advertise itself and connect to the master node. In order to allow control-plane operations from this node, a DaemonSet is started to bring in the rootfs of dom0 the kubeconfig configuration file from the master node. Therefore, any kubectl command can be run from the context of dom0 VM, as long as the credentials are valid.

S32G Vehicle Integration Platform (GoldVIP) Developer's Guide for S32G3

Different parameters regarding the cluster configuration can be changed, such as the network interfaces the nodes are using to advertise themselves, different kubelet parameters (e.g., the disk usage thresehold when the container images are freed up), credentials, flannel configuration, node taints, etc. For a complete list of configuration options, please refer to the official K3s documentation, at K3s Configuration Reference.

The configuration files used by each node can be found at /etc/rancher/k3s/config-*.yaml , depending on what k3s process is running on the given node.

## 7.3  Tips and tricks

The Kubernetes command-line tool, kubectl , provides means to deploy applications, inspect and manage cluster resources, or debugging components of the cluster. The Kubernetes objects are defined in configuration files (usually in YAML format) that are passed to the kubectl command to create or delete resources. Several commands can be used from within the v2xdomu VM to manage the local K3s cluster:

- -kubectl create -f &lt;configuration file&gt; : Create the objects defined in a configuration file. Examples can be found in the /home/root/containers directory.
- -kubectl get nodes : List the available nodes. Currently, two nodes are present in the local cluster, namely v2xdomu and s32g399ardb3 .
- -kubectl get pods : List all pods and their status.
- -kubectl describe pod &lt;pod name&gt; : Get details of the specified pod, including the list of running containers.
- -kubectl exec -it &lt;pod name&gt; -c &lt;container name&gt; -- /bin/sh : Get an interactive console to the specified container. Used for debugging.
- -kubectl delete -f &lt;configuration file&gt; : Delete the objects defined in the configuration file.

For more details regarding the kubectl , please check the official Kubernetes documentation: https:// kubernetes.io/docs/reference/kubectl/

## 7.4  Export Docker containers to OCI

The following steps shows one possible way a Docker container image can be created from scratch starting from a Dockerfile and can be exported in OCI format to run on GoldVIP. The following guide makes use of the Hello-World Docker container example.

## Prerequisites :

- A host PC running Ubuntu 18.04 or later. The steps for other distributions may differ.
- Docker installed on the host PC - complete guide for Ubuntu is here.
- QEMU to make it possible to build containers for multi-arch support: $ sudo apt-get install -y qemu-kvm qemu-user-static
- The git repository of the Hello-World Docker container example: $ git clone https://github.com/ docker-library/hello-world.git

## Preparing the Docker image to run in GoldVIP :

- In order to build containers for a different architecture, a new instance of the Docker BuildKit must be created:

```
$ docker buildx create --name arm64-builder \ --driver docker-container --bootstrap --use
```

UG10089

© 2024 NXP B.V. All rights reserved.

S32G Vehicle Integration Platform (GoldVIP) Developer's Guide for S32G3

- Inspect the BuildKit driver being currently used. It should be arm64-builder and the other architectures (e.g. linux/arm64) should be displayed in the Platforms section of the output:
- $ docker buildx inspect
- Navigate to the project directory: $ cd hello-world
- Build the OCI image for linux/arm64 target:

```
$ docker buildx build --platform linux/arm64 \ -t goldvip/hello-world arm64v8/hello-world \ -o type=oci,dest=hello-world-arm64.tar
```

On a successful build, a tar file named hello-world-arm64.tar is created.

## Using the container in GoldVIP :

- Copy the container to the v2xdomu VM file system:
- From the v2xdomu VM console, import the image using ctr tool:
- import ~/hello-world-arm64.tar
- Spawn a container based on this image:

```
$ scp hello-world-arm64.tar root@<V2XDOMU_IP>:~/.
```

```
$ ctr --address /run/k3s/containerd/containerd.sock image \
```

```
$ ctr --address /run/k3s/containerd/containerd.sock run \ --rm -t docker.io/goldvip/hello-world:latest \ hello-world-demo
```

A message will be displayed in the console and the container will be stopped.

UG10089

All information provided in this document is subject to legal disclaimers.

© 2024 NXP B.V. All rights reserved.

## 8   Yocto

Yocto is an open-source collaboration project that helps developers create Linux-based systems for embedded products. It provides an extensive set of tools, allowing the users to create custom images for embedded projects.

## 8.1  Implementation details

In GoldVIP, a Yocto layer, meta-gvip, is provided for rebuilding of the delivered SD card image. It makes use of the Yocto ecosystem using Kirkstone release and the customizations provided by the NXP Linux BSP team through the meta-alb layer. The GoldVIP sources, yocto recipes and repo manifests can be found here: GoldVIP GitHub project. The meta-gvip layer provides the recipe for the GoldVIP image (fsl-image-goldvip).

Two components are delivered in order to facilitate the build of the yocto image:

- gvip-manifests repo: Contains the hashes of meta-gvip, meta-alb, meta-aws and all other yocto layers on which the meta-gvip depends on.
- meta-gvip repo: Contains the yocto recipes needed in order to build the GoldVIP image.

Several dependencies are added by default in the GoldVIP image and can be found in the meta-gvip directory in the file /conf/distro/fsl-goldvip.conf :

- XEN: Linux Hypervisor;
- PFE: Network accelerator firmware;
- GoldVIP specific recipes (goldvip-ota, goldvip-can-gw, goldvip-bootloader, etc.);
- SJA binaries.

It is possible, but not recommended to remove the afore mentioned components.

If no modifications are performed to the configurations and all the preconditions are met, the generated .sdcard file will have the following partitioning:

- Partition 0: Raw boot partition, used by BootROM when booting from SD;
- Partition 1: Primary boot partition having FAT-32 format;
- Partition 2: Dom0 rootfs;
- Partition 3: v2xdomu rootfs;

The SDcard partition table is altered during the first boot, expanding existing partitions and creating new ones in order to use the SDcard to its full capacity. Thus, 2 new partitions will be visibile from Dom0 VM context, an extended one ( mmcblk0p4 ) and another one used for OTA updates ( mmcblk0p5 ).

## 8.2  Rebuilding the image

To rebuild the GoldVIP image, a Linux machine running Ubuntu 18 or later is needed. Yocto build usually takes at least 2-4 hours, depending on your system. The recommended RAM for the system is 16 GB. This will consume approximatively 100 GB of disk space. After performing the steps described in the GoldVIP user manual, wait for the build to finish.

Yocto provides various configuration possibilities through bbappend / config / patch files. Several examples can be found in GoldVIP. Separate recipes for both the Dom0 VM and v2xdomu can be found in meta-gvip/ recipes-fsl/images . It is possible to add new deliverables/components to any of the VMs.

S32G Vehicle Integration Platform (GoldVIP) Developer's Guide for S32G3

## 8.3  Tips and tricks

If your system does not have sufficient RAM, some builds might fail unexpectedly. If you cannot update your system, perform a cleanup using:

```
$ bitbake -c cleanall <failing_recipe> && \
```

```
bitbake <failing_recipe>
```

This will rebuild the recipe standalone.

If you want to cleanup your Yocto workspace, run the following command:

```
$ bitbake -c cleanall world -continue
```

Yocto project provides extensive documentation which can be found here: https://docs.yoctoproject.org/current/

UG10089

S32G Vehicle Integration Platform (GoldVIP) Developer's Guide for S32G3

S32G Vehicle Integration Platform (GoldVIP) Developer's Guide for S32G3

## 9   Note about the source code in the document

Example code shown in this document has the following copyright and BSD-3-Clause license:

Copyright 2023 NXP Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:

1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation and/or other materials must be provided with the distribution.
3. Neither the name of the copyright holder nor the names of its contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software without specific prior written permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

All information provided in this document is subject to legal disclaimers.

© 2024 NXP B.V. All rights reserved.

## 10   Revision History

This table summarizes the changes done to this document since the initial release.

Table 1.  Revision history

|   Revision number | Date    | Substative changes   |
|-------------------|---------|----------------------|
|                 2 | 03/2022 | Changes after review |
|                 1 | 02/2022 | Initial release      |

S32G Vehicle Integration Platform (GoldVIP) Developer's Guide for S32G3

## Legal information

## Definitions

Draft - A draft status on a document indicates that the content is still under internal review and subject to formal approval, which may result in modifications or additions. NXP Semiconductors does not give any representations or warranties as to the accuracy or completeness of information included in a draft version of a document and shall have no liability for the consequences of use of such information.

## Disclaimers

Limited warranty and liability - Information in this document is believed to be accurate and reliable. However, NXP Semiconductors does not give any representations or warranties, expressed or implied, as to the accuracy or completeness of such information and shall have no liability for the consequences of use of such information. NXP Semiconductors takes no responsibility for the content in this document if provided by an information source outside of NXP Semiconductors.

In no event shall NXP Semiconductors be liable for any indirect, incidental, punitive, special or consequential damages (including - without limitation lost profits, lost savings, business interruption, costs related to the removal or replacement of any products or rework charges) whether or not such damages are based on tort (including negligence), warranty, breach of contract or any other legal theory.

Notwithstanding any damages that customer might incur for any reason whatsoever, NXP Semiconductors' aggregate and cumulative liability towards customer for the products described herein shall be limited in accordance with the Terms and conditions of commercial sale of NXP Semiconductors.

Right to make changes - NXP Semiconductors reserves the right to make changes to information published in this document, including without limitation specifications and product descriptions, at any time and without notice. This document supersedes and replaces all information supplied prior to the publication hereof.

Suitability for use - NXP Semiconductors products are not designed, authorized or warranted to be suitable for use in life support, life-critical or safety-critical systems or equipment, nor in applications where failure or malfunction of an NXP Semiconductors product can reasonably be expected to result in personal injury, death or severe property or environmental damage. NXP Semiconductors and its suppliers accept no liability for inclusion and/or use of NXP Semiconductors products in such equipment or applications and therefore such inclusion and/or use is at the customer's own risk.

Applications - Applications that are described herein for any of these products are for illustrative purposes only. NXP Semiconductors makes no representation or warranty that such applications will be suitable for the specified use without further testing or modification.

Customers are responsible for the design and operation of their applications and products using NXP Semiconductors products, and NXP Semiconductors accepts no liability for any assistance with applications or customer product design. It is customer's sole responsibility to determine whether the NXP Semiconductors product is suitable and fit for the customer's applications and products planned, as well as for the planned application and use of customer's third party customer(s). Customers should provide appropriate design and operating safeguards to minimize the risks associated with their applications and products.

NXP Semiconductors does not accept any liability related to any default, damage, costs or problem which is based on any weakness or default in the customer's applications or products, or the application or use by customer's third party customer(s). Customer is responsible for doing all necessary testing for the customer's applications and products using NXP Semiconductors products in order to avoid a default of the applications and the products or of the application or use by customer's third party customer(s). NXP does not accept any liability in this respect.

UG10089

## S32G Vehicle Integration Platform (GoldVIP) Developer's Guide for S32G3

Terms and conditions of commercial sale - NXP Semiconductors products are sold subject to the general terms and conditions of commercial sale, as published at https://www.nxp.com/profile/terms, unless otherwise agreed in a valid written individual agreement. In case an individual agreement is concluded only the terms and conditions of the respective agreement shall apply. NXP Semiconductors hereby expressly objects to applying the customer's general terms and conditions with regard to the purchase of NXP Semiconductors products by customer.

Export control - This document as well as the item(s) described herein may be subject to export control regulations. Export might require a prior authorization from competent authorities.

Suitability for use in non-automotive qualified products - Unless this document expressly states that this specific NXP Semiconductors product is automotive qualified, the product is not suitable for automotive use. It is neither qualified nor tested in accordance with automotive testing or application requirements. NXP Semiconductors accepts no liability for inclusion and/or use of non-automotive qualified products in automotive equipment or applications.

In the event that customer uses the product for design-in and use in automotive applications to automotive specifications and standards, customer (a) shall use the product without NXP Semiconductors' warranty of the product for such automotive applications, use and specifications, and (b) whenever customer uses the product for automotive applications beyond NXP Semiconductors' specifications such use shall be solely at customer's own risk, and (c) customer fully indemnifies NXP Semiconductors for any liability, damages or failed product claims resulting from customer design and use of the product for automotive applications beyond NXP Semiconductors' standard warranty and NXP Semiconductors' product specifications.

Translations - A non-English (translated) version of a document, including the legal information in that document, is for reference only. The English version shall prevail in case of any discrepancy between the translated and English versions.

Security - Customer understands that all NXP products may be subject to unidentified vulnerabilities or may support established security standards or specifications with known limitations. Customer is responsible for the design and operation of its applications and products throughout their lifecycles to reduce the effect of these vulnerabilities on customer's applications and products. Customer's responsibility also extends to other open and/or proprietary technologies supported by NXP products for use in customer's applications. NXP accepts no liability for any vulnerability. Customer should regularly check security updates from NXP and follow up appropriately. Customer shall select products with security features that best meet rules, regulations, and standards of the intended application and make the ultimate design decisions regarding its products and is solely responsible for compliance with all legal, regulatory, and security related requirements concerning its products, regardless of any information or support that may be provided by NXP.

NXP has a Product Security Incident Response Team (PSIRT) (reachable at PSIRT@nxp.com) that manages the investigation, reporting, and solution release to security vulnerabilities of NXP products.

NXP B.V. - NXP B.V. is not an operating company and it does not distribute or sell products.

## Trademarks

Notice: All referenced brands, product names, service names, and trademarks are the property of their respective owners.

NXP - wordmark and logo are trademarks of NXP B.V.

## Contents

| 1   | Software Product Overview                                                                                 | ............................2                                        |
|-----|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------|
| 2   | Boot                                                                                                      | ...................................................................3 |
| 2.1 | Current strategy                                                                                          | .................................................3                   |
| 2.2 | Customization points                                                                                      | ......................................... 3                          |
| 2.3 | Tips and tricks ...................................................                                       | 4                                                                    |
| 3   | Over The Air Updates                                                                                      | ......................................5                              |
| 3.1 | Implementation details                                                                                    | .......................................5                             |
| 3.2 | Customization points                                                                                      | ......................................... 7                          |
| 3.3 | Tips and tricks ...................................................                                       | 7                                                                    |
| 4   | System Partitioning                                                                                       | .........................................8                           |
| 4.1 | Current strategy                                                                                          | .................................................8                   |
| 4.2 | Customization points                                                                                      | ......................................... 8                          |
| 4.3 | Tips and tricks ...................................................                                       | 8                                                                    |
| 5   | Telemetry                                                                                                 | ........................................................ 10          |
| 5.1 | Implementation details                                                                                    | .....................................10                              |
| 5.2 | Configuring the Telemetry                                                                                 | ................................11                                   |
| 5.3 | Deploying custom CloudFormation stacks from local files ................................................. | 11                                                                   |
| 5.4 | Adding new dashboards                                                                                     | ..................................12                                 |
| 5.5 | Provisioning client devices                                                                               | .............................. 13                                    |
| 5.6 | Tips and Tricks                                                                                           | ................................................ 15                  |
| 6   | Virtualization ..................................................                                         | 16                                                                   |
| 6.1 | Current offering                                                                                          | ................................................16                   |
| 6.2 | Customization points .......................................                                              | 16                                                                   |
| 6.3 | Tips and tricks .................................................                                         | 16                                                                   |
| 7   | Container orchestration                                                                                   | ................................18                                   |
| 7.1 | Current offering                                                                                          | ................................................18                   |
| 7.2 | Customization points                                                                                      | ....................................... 18                           |
| 7.3 | Tips and tricks                                                                                           | ................................................. 19                 |
| 7.4 | Export Docker containers to OCI                                                                           | .....................19                                              |
| 8   | Yocto                                                                                                     | ............................................................... 21   |
| 8.1 | Implementation details                                                                                    | .....................................21                              |
| 8.2 | Rebuilding the image                                                                                      | .......................................21                            |
| 8.3 | Tips and tricks .................................................                                         | 22                                                                   |
| 9   | Note about the source code in the document ........................................................23     |                                                                      |
|     | Revision History                                                                                          | ............................................ 24                      |
| 10  | Legal information                                                                                         | ...........................................25                        |

UG10089

## S32G Vehicle Integration Platform (GoldVIP) Developer's Guide for S32G3

Please be aware that important notices concerning this document and the product(s)

described herein, have been included in section 'Legal information'.

© 2024 NXP B.V.

For more information, please visit: https://www.nxp.com

All rights reserved.

Date of release: 29 January 2024

Document identifier: UG10089